---
tags: workshop2022abstract
title: "Rapid 3D Modeling and Inversion of Deep-Sensing Borehole Electromagnetic Measurements Using Adaptive Tensorial Spatial Sensitivity Functions (Carlos Torres-Verdin, The University of Texas at Austin)"
presentation_date: 2022-11-01
---
#### Presenter
**Carlos Torres-Verdin** from The University of Texas at Austin
#### Co-authors
Junsheng Hou, and Wardana Saputra, The University of Texas at Austin
## Abstract
Numerical modeling of borehole geophysical measurements is CPU intensive, especially along high-angle and horizontal wells. For instance, modeling neutron and density measurements along a 100-m well segment requires one day of CPU time on UT Austin’s Stampede cluster using MCNP (Monte Carlo N-Particle simulation code, Los Alamos National Laboratory). Modeling tri-axial electromagnetic and acoustic borehole measurements can take up to 3 hours of CPU time on the same cluster. These overly taxing computer simulation times prevent the implementation of separate and joint inversion methods needed to accurately interpret multiple borehole measurements into fluid/solid rock constituents of spatially complex rocks; they also limit engineering attempts for real-time 3D subsurface well navigation with reactive control. Nonetheless, most borehole measurements exhibit a spatially localized range of sensitivity (volume of investigation) within the surrounding rocks. Such an important measurement property lends itself to the implementation of quasi-linear approximations of instrument responses with respect to local spatial perturbations of rock properties.  

We developed the new concept of 3D adaptive spatial sensitivity functions to approximate borehole electromagnetic measurements without limitations on rock, borehole, or geometrical complexity. The approximation delivers simulation errors smaller than 3-5% in minutes/seconds of CPU time along a 100-m-long well trajectory and is amenable to rapid inversion approaches based on deterministic (gradient-based) or Bayesian (stochastic) techniques. This presentation describes the fundamentals of the new approximation and its implementation to simulate resistivity measurements acquired along arbitrary wellbore trajectories across 3D subsurface anisotropic models. It also describes examples of inversion based on the new approximation when applied to several cases of measurements acquired in spatially complex rocks and high-angle and horizontal wells.


## Biography
Carlos Torres-Verdín received a B.Sc. degree in Engineering Geophysics from the National Polytechnic Institute of Mexico, a M.Sc. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Texas at Austin, and a Ph.D. degree in Engineering Geoscience from the University of California at Berkeley in 1991. During 1991-1997, he held the position of Research Scientist with Schlumberger-Doll Research. From 1997-1999, he was Reservoir Specialist and Technology Champion with YPF (Buenos Aires, Argentina). Since 1999, he has been affiliated with the Department of Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering of the University of Texas at Austin, where he is currently Full Professor, holds the Brian James Jennings Memorial Endowed Chair in Petroleum and Geosystems Engineering, and conducts research on borehole geophysics, formation evaluation, petrophysics, well logging, and integrated reservoir description. Dr. Torres-Verdín is the founder and director of the Research Consortium on Formation Evaluation at the University of Texas at Austin, which has been in operation for 21 years and is currently sponsored by 20 companies. He has published over 230 refereed journal papers and over 250 conference papers, two book chapters, co-authored one book, is co-inventor of 6 U.S. patents, has served as Guest Editor for Radio Science, invited Associate Editor for Interpretation (Society of Exploration Geophysicists, SEG), Associate Editor for the Journal of Electromagnetic Waves and Applications, SPE Journal (Society of Petroleum Engineers, SPE), and Petrophysics (Society of Petrophysicists and Well Log Analysts, SPWLA), chair of the editorial board of The Leading Edge (SEG), Editor of Petrophysics (SPWLA) and Assistant Editor for Geophysics (SEG). He is a member of the research committee of the SEG, was a member of the technical committee of the SPWLA during two 3-year terms, was VP of Publications of the SPWLA during two one-year terms, and currently serves as VP Technology of the SPWLA. Dr. Torres-Verdín is recipient of the 2020 Virgil Kauffman Gold Medal from the SEG, 2019 Anthony Lucas Gold Medal from the SPE, 2017 Conrad Schlumberger Award from the EAGE (European Association of Geoscientists and Engineers), 2014 Gold Medal for Technical Achievement from the SPWLA, 2008 Formation Evaluation Award from the SPE, 2006 Distinguished Technical Achievement Award from the SPWLA, Distinguished Member of the SPE, and Honorary Member of the SEG. He also received the 2003, 2004, 2006, and 2007 Best Paper Awards in Petrophysics (SPWLA), Honorable Mention for the 2015 Best Paper published in Geophysics, 2020 Best Paper Award published in Geophysics, 2006 and 2014 Best Presentation Awards and the 2007 Best Poster Award by the SPWLA, and was designated Distinguished Technical Speaker during 2006-2007 and 2013-2014 by the SPWLA. Dr. Torres-Verdín has supervised 34 PhD and 47 Master’s students, conducted numerous industry training courses, co-chaired several technical workshops and conference sessions, and has served as member of multiple SPE, SPWLA, and SEG committees in the past. The internet link http://sites.utexas.edu/carlostorresverdin/ provides a historical and detailed record of the publication, technical projects, training courses, and research projects undertaken by Dr. Torres-Verdín.

