---
title: NFES Full day formation evaluation seminar 2023
tags: Event
cover: assets/events/geosteering-cover-2022.jpg
cover_size: lg
pageview: true
excerpt: "All exsiting and new members are invited to a non-commercial full day formation evaluation seminar at Solastranden Gård."
presentation_date: 2023-11-01
---
<style>
  .hero-example--linear-gradient {
    background-image: 
    linear-gradient(135deg, 
    rgba(252, 243, 226, .8), 
    rgba(168, 161, 146, .2)), url("/assets/events/geosteering-cover-2022.jpg");
  }
</style>

<div class="hero hero hero-example--linear-gradient" style='height: 600px;'>
  <div class="hero__content">
    <h3>NFES Full day formation evaluation seminar 2023</h3>
    <p>1 November, 2023 <br> Solastranden Gård</p>
  </div>
</div>

The Norwegian Formation Evaluation Society, a chapter of SPWLA is pleased to invite you to **a non-commercial full day formation evaluation seminar to be held at Solastranden Gård, Wednesday the 1st of November**. 
We kindly ask for your participation and financial support to make the event a success. More details will be communicated in due time.
 
## Seminar duration: 
1st of November 2023, 09:00-16:00. Coffee/tee, lunch, and refreshments (after lunch)

## Registration: Please use this link for registration: 
[NFES 2023 seminar registration](https://forms.gle/A6RVTrgZHC6GBdx67)
-          The seminar is free for paying NFES members.
-          If you are not an NFES member and would like to attend, please make your payment of 1200 NOK.

Any issues with regards on registration, please contact the following:
Online submission issues: Sergey Alyaev, 
[saly@norceresearch.no](mailto:saly@norceresearch.no)

Membership status: 
- Subhadeep Sarkar; [subhadeep.sarkar@varenergi.no](mailto:subhadeep.sarkar@varenergi.no)
 
## Call for abstracts: 

NFES would like to call for abstracts starting from 11th of September and ending 16th of October. 

Themes and topics to be covered by the seminar are:
-          Petrophysical and well log analysis supporting CCS and energy transformation agenda.
-          New way of working – Applications of Machine learning digitalization, AI, etc. in formation evaluation.
-          New logging technology in complex formation evaluation.
-          Successful well performance: Petrophysical support beyond drilling - Completion, intervention and well integrity

In addition, Norwegian University students (MSc and PhD) are welcome to submit their work and studies. NFES would like to support the students, whose abstracts are approved, on their actual travel expenses capped at maximum of 3000 NOK per student.

**For submission of abstract**, please use the following link: [Abstract submission](https://forms.gle/nYtE24Ai6FSVa5jr9)

Any issues, questions, or comments on abstract submission processes, please contact the following:
Online submission issues: 
- Sergey Alyaev, [saly@norceresearch.no](mailto:saly@norceresearch.no)
For technical assistance:
- Irada Yusufova, [iy@equinor.com](mailto:iy@equinor.com)
- Dler Mirza, [dler.mirza@akerbp.com](mailto:dler.mirza@akerbp.com)
 
## Sponsor opportunity: 
NFES would like to offer sponsor opportunity during the seminar.

We offer 4 **event sponsor / event marketing packages** costing 15 000 NOK.
A package includes:
- 2 complimentary delegate registrations
- Logo of a sponsor on the event's webpage and an optional link to your company's web presence
- Logo in emails sent to members promoting the workshop
- Word of thank you from the chairman at the workshop
- Marketing of your company in the registration area/break area including **1 roll-up display** below 1m. (sponsor to provide) and **1** bar table for printed materials (provided).

For more details, equations on sponsor opportunity, please contact the following:
- Annette Larsen: [alarsen@logtek.no](mailto:alarsen@logtek.no)
- Torunn Hanna,  [thana@repsol.com](mailto:thana@repsol.com)

## Organizing committee
- Dler Mirza [dler.mirza@akerbp.com](mailto:dler.mirza@akerbp.com)
- Sergey Alyaev [saly@norceresearch.no](mailto:saly@norceresearch.no)
- Irada Yusufova [iy@equinor.com](mailto:iy@equinor.com)
- Annette Larsen [alarsen@logtek.no](mailto:alarsen@logtek.no)
- Torunn Hanna  [thana@repsol.com](mailto:thana@repsol.com)
- Subhadeep Sarkar [subhadeep.sarkar@varenergi.no](mailto:subhadeep.sarkar@varenergi.no)
- Venkat Jambunathan [venkataraman.jambunathan@halliburton.com](mailto:svenkataraman.jambunathan@halliburton.com)
